Make patch not apply optionality transform by default (#7230)
microsoft/typespec: .chronus/changes/patch-implicit-optionality-false-2025-4-5-21-50-59.md

---
# Change versionKind to one of: internal, fix, dependencies, feature, deprecation, breaking
changeKind: breaking
packages:
  - "@typespec/http"
---

> Make patch not apply optionality transform by default anymore. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changed `@patch` so that it does not apply the "implicit optionality" transform by default anymore.
```

```diff lang=tsp
@patch op update(@body pet: Pet): void;
```

> Replace with either the following to respect json merge patch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use JSON Merge-Patch to update resources, replace the body property with an instance of `MergePatchUpdate` as follows:
```

```tsp
@patch op update(@body pet: MergePatchUpdate<Pet>): void;
```

> or keep the old behavior

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or, keep the old behavior by explicitly enabling `implicitOptionality` in the `@patch` options:
```

```tsp

> @patch(#{ implicitOptional: true }) op update(@body pet: Pet): void;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@patch(#{ implicitOptionality: true }) op update(@body pet: Pet): void;
```
